Work Ethic & Sacrifice
“No one should put this many hours into work… this is very painful.”
“I just did it because if I didn’t, Tesla would probably die.”
“Work super hard… every waking hour, especially when starting a company.”
“Starting a company is like eating glass and staring into the abyss.”
Entrepreneurship Reality
“There’s lots of optimism at first… then happiness steadily declines.”
“You go through a whole world of hurt.”
“Most companies fail… Tesla almost didn’t succeed.”
“If you succeed, after a long time you finally get back to happiness.”
Passion & Purpose
“It’s very important to really like what you do.”
“If you don’t like it, life is too short—you won’t make it work.”
“If you like what you do, you think about it even when you’re not working.”
Building Companies
“Creating a company is like having a child.”
“You have to feed it, nurse it, and take care of it—even if it ruins you.”
“Doing something useful for other people that you like doing.”
Risk & Decision-Making (2008 Crisis)
“I had to choose: put all money into one company or split it and risk both dying.”
“I couldn’t let one starve… so I split the money.”
“Fortunately, they both survived.”
Innovation & Technology
“Advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.”
“If I can help advance technology, that would be really cool.”
“Things we take for granted today would have seemed like magic centuries ago.”
Resilience & Mindset
“I don’t ever give up. I’d have to be dead or incapacitated.”
“Even the best have a chance of failure.”
“Have a high pain threshold.”
Feedback & Learning
“Actively seek out negative feedback.”
“Don’t tell me what you like—tell me what you don’t like.”
“Even your enemies can give useful feedback.”
Early Struggles
“I couldn’t afford an apartment, so we slept in the office.”
“The website ran during the day; I coded at night—seven days a week.”
“If someone wanted to spend time with me, they had to sleep in the office.”
SpaceX & Risk-Taking
“The first three launches failed.”
“If the fourth launch had failed, we would have been done.”
“I tried to find a great chief engineer… ended up being one myself.”
Motivation & Perspective
“I didn’t expect any of this to happen.”
“I started a company because I couldn’t get a job.”
“How many things can you buy that you truly love? Very rare—that’s what we try to create.”
Critics & Belief
“When critics say you can’t do something… we’ve done it.”
“I was sad to see heroes criticize—but I wish they’d see the work.”